welcome to GUI and in web browsers for
the 4th of March 2020 I'm joined by
regular folks those are new regulars
guys now let's take a look at our agenda
I've had it
yeah I think I've added the first one so
I can start and then feel free to add
anything else we should discuss this
week so the item I've had it is about
window.i TFS and the fact the background
is that jeaious ipfs and JS ipfs HTTP
client both switched to Assange
iterables which changed the programmatic
API that people use in JavaScript if
they switch to the latest JFS and
corresponding HTTP client the problem is
a keifa's companion is exposing a
certain experiment we are exposing a
programmatic interface on window object
called ID FS and you if you have IP
first companion installed it will inject
that API endpoint to a page and a page
can request activation for that
interface for a specific commands and
what bastes what basically happens
behind the scenes there's like a proxy
between a web page and the API PFS api
used by ipfs companion that could be
embedded GSI BFS running in a browser
extension or remote HTTP api that could
be localhost api provided by go ipfs or
ipfs desktop
so on some level we don't really control
the version of that API that IP FS
companion connects to generally ipfs
companion has some fixes that make when
we started when we historically had the
breaking changes to files api's some
commands got moved from files API like
ipfs files namespace to the top-level
namespace we've added aliases so no
matter which version of API is in the
background the programmatic interface
exposed the web page would still work as
expected the problem is now we made even
more breaking changes with that a single
factor and now it's no longer like
possible to programmatically detect what
like the web page wants web page may
expect the old version of a TFS cards
and now or it may expect a new version
which should return as an iterable like
reported on this issue but it was not
because ipfs compile is still using the
old version of JSI TFS HTTP client and
that client is exposing the old
programmatic interface that deep long
background was like necessary to
understand the question I post on this
issue so basically the question is
should we disable ipfs we do ipfs until
support for those new api slants and
what I mean by support landing basically
we need to switch I'd give us companion
to New Jersey DFS and JFS HTTP client
which used those new api's anyway it's
just we namely me had no bandwidth in
this quarter for doing that so we
postponed that to
you two sort of there's like open issue
for tracking that immigration if anyone
is interested the problem remains right
now if a website is using window ipfs
and the way people are using window IGFs
object they check if it's present and
opportunistically they try to use it if
it fails for some reason then they can
like fall back to spamming their own
boat or using like external HTTP api
however like usually if the window ipfs
is present the website tries to use it
so the idea is to right now it tries to
use it and it breaks which is pretty bad
so the idea is to push back histories of
IPs companion that would simply stop
exposing window ipfs and make it like
grayed out blacked out in preferences
with a note that we are in the progress
of in creating two new api that's not
like very severe change cause i don't
feel a lot of people rely like 100% on
this it was most like opportunistic if
someone is running a node it's nice for
people to use their local node instead
of spamming a J's IVFs for fetching data
but it's still a significant change the
question is should we do it I'm open to
opinions so could we like change instead
of like disabling could that appear
thing for like detection where they
check like the ipfs version could make
that recommendation does the thing right
now they if you are the website
developer you can execute ipfs version
command so tell the version of the
backend demon however we don't really
have a way of checking the version of HD
client or JSI PFS so those are two
different versions right which expose
the same core interface and I don't
think it's a burden that we should push
to developer because that would require
like developer to know
oh those versions of J's ipfs and GS IPF
SFTP client exposed this version of
programmatic interface like we don't
have any versioning of the programmatic
interface actually like we have the core
interface which is like released but I'm
not sure if that's like an abstraction
that we should like exposed to
developers when we started window idea
firstly experiments the API was
basically like one-to-one with HTTP API
without any bells and whistles and the
assumption was it's sort of like a
static beast and it will check when we
make a breaking change that would be
like a TI hito v1 and with that we'll
probably introduce some versioning
scheme but right now I don't have a
means of doing versioning the core API
with something called a specification
sounds like a great long-term plan to me
yeah because like we talked like we
mentioned before I started recording a
lot of people rely on Jas and like Jas
itself this is this abstraction of
programmatic interfaces effectively
becoming a separate API that we need to
like cater to and making the problem is
in companion we don't have any means and
people don't check the daemon version
when we made like a changes to the way
like ipfs odd hundred something
people were not even able to very
account a version of go idea fest for
working around that so this is even
worse yeah when you say people can't
don't check the daemon version though
like who are these people are these
people that are using cheese I pay fast
see their HP client or yep yes connect
to local demon yes so basically when you
use ipfs api
you've got a version command but that
does not do what probably people think
that it does it returns a version of the
implementation that could be a version
of coati of soo-ji PFS and it returns a
version of protocol which is always the
same like 0.1 it does not return version
of yeah it does not return a new version
that could be bound to that programmatic
interface I think that's that so the
version doesn't match whatever the set
of API and the semantics of the API and
behavior of the API yeah what's worse
smaller
yeah what's worse you can point like
older version of HTTP client and then
you a sink iterator version of HTTP
client to the same HTTP API and like the
demon version will be the same but the
Jas program like the programmatic
interface for J's would be different so
yeah I mean I secure it but I think your
idea about versioning the programmatic
API really makes a lot of sense like
that's the if that's the one that's the
main compatibility point that developers
are going to use that's the place where
there's gonna be problems if API differs
or behavior changes if a semantics say
the same so I think versioning the
programmatic API really makes a lot of
sense and if unless there's any changes
you know that you see they're gonna be
big to that to that set of API is I mean
it might just really resolve the issue
for awhile we
we can depend on that bit yeah so and
then ipfs you require ipfs too later on
down the road yeah like in the long term
we could like extend of just the version
command we got like the daemon the
protocol we could guard like add like
programmatic interface version as a
third thing
the problem is solving the problem at
hand which is companion breaks websites
who rely on window ipfs because the api
changed yeah but do it so we know there
are 25,000 installs of companion yeah
alright and I guess my my concern here
is that we might be over rotating on a
fairly small set of people that we
probably have pretty high level
communication with yeah the question is
should maybe the question is not should
we disable or should we do anything
until we refactor companion to use the
new API maybe that's the other question
yeah I think that's a more pragmatic
question just on things so if we disable
it it will break the apps as well right
because no actually the way people use
window idea fess is like opportunistic
thing so they check if it's present if
it's present they will use it if it's
missing they will spawn their own J's
ipfs or they will run their own HTTP
client to some remote API so it won't
like if we do idea first disappears that
will not break ups yet generally yeah
unless the codes just pretty bad but
again I feel like we're talking about
still a pretty small number of people
yeah the problem is more if we remove it
and stuff breaks then we'll know a
little bit more about those people yeah
so it's more about objects cause like
people who use IP fix companion probably
the most passionate about a cubist
project and they are the people who will
test those apps who probably have
support this opportunistic support so
it's like
I worry about this overlap yeah I'd
really I'd want to dig into who those
people aren't though like if they're the
most passionate users and they're the
ones who are debugging this and these
are the developers and then they're the
ones who are also going to read our our
blog posts where you talk about this
change or the one we're gonna retweet
about it or the forum where you post
about it and I guess I'm hesitant I'm
hesitant to make too many assumptions
around levels of usage correlate those
with number of installs and like if you
seem to be referring to your specific
implementations where you've seen people
do this in their code we should be able
to detect that to some extent on github
by doing repo and code searching I
figure out with the list of projects are
that are say looking for a window TFS in
there and their JavaScript or web
content you can define fallbacks and we
do I give us this one also like
implicitly enabled I believe so we can
check who depends on that yeah it sounds
like removing it even the cost of
removing it according to you is just not
gonna be really that high a bigger
challenge is making sure that we have an
adoption pathway migration pathway that
remains smooth so what developers who
are adopting now they'd have to do too
many changes or jump through too many
hoops moving forward should remove it
for now and then when we introduce it we
introduce it with like that versioning
so it's more or less for sure
somehow does assume have poles
okay you can't you start a poll right
now and then we can all there's a pause
button was when I press it when I press
it then window opens and then I need to
create the poll in my web browser oh
really
let me like create yes and action - no
this is show up in a chat should it be a
multiple choice no I will make it
no I will make it multiple choice just
for magic effect and and also I wonder
if it's anonymized or can you see
everybody else vote okay this is kind of
derailer okay definitely I think there's
probably totally fine to remove widow
not a few thoughts for that it's it's
like did anything happened because I
pressed something
thanks tomb
apologies to people who are watching
this on YouTube and other places we
should do better next time I will end
this topic and let's provisionally say
that yeah probably we should remove it
for now and then we'll have a separate
discussion about versioning programmatic
interface in a way that developers can
actually use right next one functional
configuration of J's to be yeah so in
terms of like usability of live p2p
we've been looking at like how we can
make configuration easier we talked
about a myriad of options in last night
I had some thoughts that I wrote down in
this issue on using functional
configuration for ipfs so I think there
are a lot of potential wins to doing
this it solves should solve a lot of
problems it should allow us to export
configurations as well as look at like
what improvements we can make in terms
of like actionable errors so if I do an
NPM install the p2p and then I import
one of these configs from the Lib PDV
package on a limb p2p tech create
because I want a browser package or I
want a node package and then I don't
install any other packages so I do you
know try to run that like getting
actionable errors that say hey run this
NPM install commands to get all the
packages that you're missing so kind of
like guiding
people for that as well as like
supporting users who want to do more
complex configuration and I think this
will also allow us to do things that
we've been wanting to do for a while in
terms of like splitting up the DHT into
putting it in content routing and appear
routing and to peer discovery like we'll
be able to split up those components and
have that configuration function live in
the DHT repo so as modules are created
if they need any complex setup they'd be
able to just like export their own
configuration functions for users to to
do and compose the p2p so there is a
proposal in that issue that's linked in
the notes if you have comments or
opinions please please share this is
super useful because I've been on the
receiving end of the current version
well of the current way we overwrite the
p2p configuration in JSI PFS and I think
yeah right after you posted it I linked
changes we've made in J's ipfs to make
it a little bit less painful and I'm
inactive as companion I'm overriding a
lot of stuff in the default
configuration for brave cause that's a
tricky tricky runtime for which we had
no template we have like a browser
defaults and the node defaults but brave
is a browser with TCP transport and then
DNS discovery so we like I had to
basically write custom custom
configuration with custom list of
transports and discovery methods and
it's like already bit better on the
jsapi fest site but I agree it's still
tricky especially like that
not sure if it's like not the railing
too much but
the thing that always felt icky to me
was the way WebSocket star WebRTC is
kind of fine we only like past pure idea
to to the constructor but WebSocket star
historically had a pretty bad additional
steps in J's ipfs related to basically
like replacing multi others.we with
WebSockets Darwins not sure if it's
something we can address in while we
make it this refactor but it certainly
sounds like a problem not only I would
have because I imagine a lot of people
who want to run a custom config they
probably want to run the custom configu
if like something like WebSocket star or
a custom list of transports and they
that's the first problem the heat so
it's super useful to yeah at least at
least look at the that's a prior art for
potential use yeah and so I think that
like the Jas J's ipfs configures like
that most complicated configure that we
know today so I think if we can we can
build a configuration in a way that
makes that just like ok this just works
now like we just have to add like maybe
specific stuff around like listen and
announce addresses but that should also
be done as like a customization function
of here they listen and addresses so
that everything is just those specific
functions and we should have like stuff
just built out of the box to do that so
ideally I would like even like the stuff
that we need for the JSI PFS config most
of that should be able to exist in like
a prepackaged customization function in
Lapita P so then JSI p FS we just need
to import Lapita p pass a specific
configuration function and like maybe
one or two other small functions and
then just get the instance that way
it probably will need to take another
pass out your notes and revisit my mind
from brave because I feel I had like
more pain points if it's just like it's
super quick yeah I I need to do a pass
at it as well I wanted to get it out of
my brain because I woke up at 3:00 a.m.
and for some reason thought about Limpy
to be configuration so I had to jot down
some things then go back to bed but also
also going to sleep waking up or asleep
jaesi jaea sleep p2p configuration will
I will also have a look at your proposal
this week yeah cause like yeah I I
wonder if required rocket Stardust would
have the similar challenges with that
additional code that had to be kinda run
outside of the p2p and really none of
that should need to exist anymore with
the new version like we can see like if
something like that still needs to
happen we can go back and look I'm like
okay what's what's going on because even
with the current configuration you
shouldn't need to do that because one of
the things we did in the refactor is now
we do whenever we instantiate transports
we pass Lib p2p anyway transports can go
get lit be TP pull Eid pull the
addresses do anything they need to do
alright should we review browser and
connectivity metrics specifically can we
measure in browser notes in any way
should I share my screen with ya I
wanted to just go through real quick and
validate these and see if this made
sense if they if they were possible and
asked for you all to add any notes there
around where how we'd hook up the data
source so if there's a way to say
programmatically do companion installs
that'll add a link there to notes for
some of these other ones just add a link
if you know if there's any data sources
available already and then we can hook
them up in the grammar I'm looking at
adding refined plugins that make it as
easy as possible if rebuild let's do
that without us having to you know spend
spend lifetimes and in the animals that
we can't get back so reducing the pain
of wiring some of these up but I think
that I'm the the core the most important
thing for me is what they're not any of
these makes sense for measuring how
we're getting to our goals in overall in
browsers connectivity land so what are
the most important bits for us are and I
think part of that comes to you know
some of this understanding there's
there's specific shorter term goals like
getting a bootstrap no load decreased
getting relay users to zero or whatever
right or W a star that users to zero so
things like that are shorter term but
those don't necessarily speak to the
longer term impact that we want to have
which has higher levels of connectivity
for increasing numbers of people using
IP FS from webpages so I'd really I need
you all of your help in figuring out
what the right way to understand and
measure that and um you know I think all
he was talking about the way or the
stuff that are doing for like DHT
crawling and things like that to be able
to measure of size of the DHT and the
ability to see have some view into
number of
in browser notes so if Jessica custards
running in HTTP web pages are connecting
and and connecting to other peers having
a view into what what that means from is
is is that never growing is that number
decreasing that there's probably some
wrinkles around like the works that
three boxes doing and I'll talk about
that in the next one of these next items
around how to collapse node usage across
tabs so you got one you got eighteen
tabs open with some well somehow one jjs
ipfs instantly time some of the stuff
that he was doing with lunette some of
our partners whoever having increasing
deployment sizes like three box are
really having to push hard on solving
that problem which of course then
collapses the number of users I guess
it's still the same individual person
that's not such a big deal but you know
understanding what the numbers actually
mean knots don't the standpoint but let
me know if there's if any of these
things seem like either they're not
worth measuring or they are impossible
to measure definitely let me know and
then from that like what are the what
are our what's our end goal what does it
look like when browsers and connectivity
group is winning does that look like
some number of connections from
individual and users in browsers is
actually increasing does it look like
number of connection options increase
if we had the HD it will be easier
because you just growl the DHD and you
look at multi others now we need to
figure it out okay Alex said tht in the
fall snow
I thought we had just agreed in in
Brooklyn to not make a decision about
tht in JavaScript and fall but Alex said
no he's like no the idea was she'll just
implement in the fall and that will be
done I was like okay I'm fine with that
in the same room and everyone went out
from the room with the decision they
really liked I thought my my
understanding of the decision was
conservative I just thought we were
telling it we were pushing off the
decision itself I pushed it off and then
Alex decided I we did find out yesterday
that three boxes using JSI TFS on the
server as well and it was an interesting
conversation and we'll roll some of this
up in the clouds report but it was
interesting in that they had some
perceptions around capability of go
versus go I confess versus JSI PFS that
seemed rooted a little bit in kind of
the attitude of the project as a whole
around like oh is the official
implementation and I perceived sense of
lack of support for certain things in
JavaScript and not clear read map from
them in understanding what level of
capability or support gsfs is going to
get in the future so I feel like there's
like we're finding more more users of
the software where we already make that
we didn't know we're users of our
software even though they're very close
collaborators and more viewing to that
will be you know getting their feedback
on things like whether or not the DHT
support would make or break their use
case but would be good right now they
have a pretty constrained use case so it
it's not really a problem for them it's
actually really similar to what
Microsoft is doing where most their
clients just swarm connect directly to
them anyway so not a big deal
but they want to they want it actually
wants you to grow and be more
decentralized in a way that they don't
need that as a as a crutch
yeah absolutely and I sort of I had a
call with terminal Monday specifically
around changes in the browser context
and they probably will be pushing the
boundaries that were visited by reckless
lunette for a project at some point it
feels like the problem of like multiple
instances in multiple tabs or multiple
repos repos pair origin how do you share
repo or like entire Jase I give as
instance across different websites that
use the same like library or how do you
bootstrap websites for just like having
static page with CID somewhere somewhere
and a small library pretty pretty
exciting still the limitation of web
browser context WebSockets
web RTC not working in service workers
problems like that so we definitely
continue talking with them because they
are still trying to figure it out what's
possible and that will also feed back to
the decision they make and we want to be
at least acting as a guidance for what
will be possible on the IFS site in the
short term long term when the DHD learns
how useful it will be if every multi
other is tcp one things like that it can
is there an issue are in are we
distributed yet for WebRTC in service
workers are we tracking that request in
a way that all our partner projects can
happen and make their needs ideally yeah
I believe there's like wow there are at
least two issues about WebRTC one is
about sort of like a state of the art
and it's like all the issues not only
that one and the separate one is about
like WebRTC next generation which is
like
of other quick and things like that so
dad like to two issues
I'm just reckon I'm wondering like you
know we hear three box talked about that
so like we've kind of jump to the next
issue there so definitely take away
before we hardcore switch away from
metrics
please review those metrics add any
notes you have around data sources for
them and then we can we can work on
getting those hooked up but from the
from the you know I added an issue
around both terminal and three box
because they're talking about these same
problems they're talking about things
like multiple nodes inside a single
browser when you get a bunch of tabs
open they're talking about connection
limitations things like web RTC and
service workers came up in conversations
with both of them so making sure that we
can use places like are we distributed
yet as a multi multi party way of people
raising their hand and saying I need
this and then we can point standards
groups to that when we go and talk to
those groups and then I think also
really even even envisioning I feel like
there's a nascent opportunity for us to
envision the non DHT ways of people that
are connecting over WebRTC the way that
meta mask is doing the way that web torn
is doing a number of approaches for
really building large client alene
networks over WebRTC that we kind of
haven't really been taking advantage of
and I don't have enough visibility into
why that is or this is just lack of
resources or experimentation or we
already evaluated these we say these
won't work is as alternative P
transports that will run over WebRTC
that are not the HD so and people's
thoughts on that would be really
interesting
I just remembered who goes experiments
with DNS and the discussions we had on
like shutting DHT on the DNS records
yeah yeah let's sleep on that one
how come everything I bring up you say
we need to sleep on because this girl is
just one our topic is another I just
keep bringing up little asks like please
reinvent or throw away or burn the DHT
down smoking's what's about to enjoy
yeah just so I linked the pl event issue
there you know both the research team
resonate and us all pulled back from
from IT or four to seven could just to
close but we do want to have a more
concerted effort presence around 108
we're kind of talking about things like
running a social or a meetup like people
are interested in this kind of stuff and
have it be kind of like birds of a
feather type of made up for 108 but
we'll probably because this group in
particular it would be great to have
your presence if you look through like
the 107 schedule obsessions there's just
so many sessions that are relevant to us
so I definitely maybe marked this period
down on your calendar and put a hold
just in case because we'll probably want
to combine a browser connectivity hack
week along with with all or part of this
meetup hopefully travel restrictions
will be able to be less by that point
and for a lot of you this is some fairly
close close travel not too crazy just
Jacob and I have a longer room to get
over there nope
I'm in Germany
oh right yeah I'm on the wrong side the
origin Kevin this this site is much
cooler and to come see us the next the
next one to you co-hosting co-hosting
don't let the dream die way I saw this
thread from data hoarders on Reddit
talking about suppression of coverage 19
News in in China one of the you know
things that we have maybe we even talked
to matters news would be interesting to
talk about how we can support them but
co-hosting seems like we still would
keep coming up with these these cases
for co-hosting that seem like would be
interesting experiments and how we can
use the browser to be able to make it
easy for people to publish from from I
published from old web to IP fast every
time there's a situation like this where
there's the data suppression at scale
just even starting to happen in the US a
little bit it's really it's an
opportunity for us to be able to say
look at the power of these tools that
that we built with co-hosting we have
some experimentation the last fall see
like on top of them FS how can we build
things on top of em FS so they require
protocol level changes that require API
level or record level changes but I'll
really like smooth the kind of user
onboarding and flow for being able to
republish web content with my PFS and
then read it and collect it back so I
feel like we we kind of set this we
explicitly set this aside but the use
cases for for this type of functionality
continue to continue to increase
especially this idea of like Auto
co-hosting small bits here and there as
you're browsing where people users opt
in for a specific use case maybe this is
something we write up as a grant might
be an interesting idea but there's
probably a little bit of work there
around you know testing and making sure
that the the scenario actually like
getting the the basic flow working first
in case someone in case someone is
watching this and thinks I could maybe
hack on this there is ipfs shipyard
co-hosting which is just like a
description of the experiment why are we
making the experiment there is a
specification for co-hosting basic
operations adding removing listing
everything is more sort of like a
convent convention over configuration so
it's just like a set of convention for
where you put snapshots and how do you
tell which snapshot is the latest one
how do you remove it this repo is just
like a meta repo for the specification
and overall overview where we are but
there's a separate repo called ipfs
cohost and it's a command line tool
which implements this experimental spec
you can use it for like co-hosting
specific websites so it's right now it's
for entire websites but it supports lazy
mode in which you can you just or the
sub pages that you actually visited or
you actually care about and what could
someone try to hack on or contribute is
submitting appear to give us companion
because this project is not only a
common line tool it should also act as a
J's library so like actually you don't
need to implement the spec even the
library is more or less probably done
because it's used by the command line
tool someone could try to use the same
library and simply add user interface to
a Kieffer's companion for like adding
and removing sites or our browser action
right now in activist companion there is
just a big toggle for pinning so you
just pin entire Wikipedia hundreds of
gigabytes which is not the best idea
well
um what one could do is to try to
replace that that the interface for
pinning with something smarter built on
top of this library yep
would be really cool one of those
projects that are like really cool but
there are the priorities yeah it seems
like if we could get the base pieces in
place than other people
content verticals like event response
and any specific thing like Wikimedia we
do things like people could run with it
if we got these base pieces in place so
maybe maybe I'll do something like maybe
I'll make a calendar event for like ipfs
dev grants hack day so we just like set
aside half of a half of a Friday or
something like that to write up grants
for things like this
yes we didn't we wanted to do that in a
Bricklin but we didn't really get time
Yeah right to care grant takes time I
know cuz I wrote one and I'm in the
process of right oh I wrote two actually
is there a leaderboard is there a prize
yes there should be I'm living so I am
asking about the potential there
absolutely should be all right so I
added this next item as well and this is
this is also a request for this group is
you know at Brooklyn we got together we
talked a little bit about like the
specific initiatives that we have in
place we we have you know things like
deprecating to be a star improving
activity options we have some things
around companion and we say have things
around supporting our browser murder
partners but but what I really like
seeing this kind of goes into planning
for q2 okay are so keeps use about him
just a little under a month away so
people should already be starting to
think about what that next set of goals
are but what I would like to actually do
is flip it around to me even just half
like and I wanted to do this in Brooklyn
and we just really didn't have that the
timer focus there's so much stuff going
on but I'd love to be able to have like
where what the things like at the end of
the year like they you have in mind that
like where would be a good place for us
to be from a browser in connectivity
standpoint at the end of the year what
is that some like that total list of
things you'd be like that's December I
feel good because we got all these
things these are the things that we that
we got done this year I would love to be
able to have that list so I think right
right now we have 13 minutes left can
you write down some of those things in
this in this item of my company that
would be in that list what would what
would it look like what would a good
good year look like from from a
connectivity standpoint from our browser
integrations standpoint so that as we go
into things like q2 planning we can
refer back to this list and say do do
any of these things we're listing as our
quarterly okay ours are they getting us
measurably closer to this and even
better would be to say take this list of
things and walk backwards say what what
are the things that would be need we
need to do for this to actually be
possible but were these things and we
could walk backward
and then what gives you that gives you
kind of a loose draft okay our list for
the next couple of quarters that gets
you it's at the end of the year so this
idea of really thinking you know like
we're I feel like we're moving from a
place where some of the fires are now
being tended they're not as on fire
anymore we're getting to the point where
we're releasing looking forward like
deprecating ago stars the thing there's
a very close feels like we're soon we
have you know like new new connectivity
options coming up what does it look like
past that we can actually start to look
forward instead of like just being in a
place where we're like oh we need we
knew and we know all this stuff needs to
change
we just haven't got to it yet eventually
we're gonna be out of that position and
I want to start to shift us thinking
into shooting a little bit farther ahead
we're where we are right now and looking
at how we would get get to this that get
to that point and a little bit more
intentional and organized way so a lot
of times we get to qtu planning or next
quarter okay our planning like what is
okay what's that was this fire to fight
but instead I already have a list of
things that were like these are the
place things that we know we need to do
this year and here those steps that we
need to get there so then we already
have q2 q3 and q4 Oki is already pretty
much pre-written for us if we have an
understanding where we want to be at the
end of the year
does that does that sound crazy
typing typing machines oh wait this is
this Eliska to get to log should I
restrict you to 15 items per person hey
these look like good things I'd say did
feel free to stretch too I mean like
stop and stretch or also add stretch
goals which are we just you know yawning
yeah Andrew it's too early
ooh browser notes don't carry a big
crypto bundle with them the more I learn
about that situation all right double
maybe even triple encryption rainbow
that's a really different feel it's
extra security don't worry about it
what about they gave a scene that's
something that really goes across
project right or is that something it's
really specific to browsers I think it
would be more of maybe a developer
experience okay we have we have one of
those people here mr. dias Senor Diaz so
the question the earlier conversation
around API versioning programmatic API
versioning as a developer experience
question because that's not a browser
specific thing that's about stability of
the programmatic API across all the
different deployed environments but in
what you want to version the
programmatic API that's hard we're
talking about it mmm we're thinking
about it okay well would love to hear
your thoughts like the core interface
interface repo the idea is how can we
like expose the version of the package
that already exists and make it useful
for people who don't want to break
anything if that programmatic interface
changes you can expose that version from
the version command yeah so like we
already have protocol version and the
daemon version we could at like the
first yeah for Jas ecosystem yeah kind
of takes
during a slot machine where you pull it
down and it spins through a protocol
version demon version the SPI version
you can see where you land we have a lot
of we have a lot of configuration and
meta configuration this came up in some
conversations with other collaboration
partners as well where it was unclear
out of all our configuration stuff what
was what was kind of did what were the
defaults and that came in out of the box
hash all the version numbers together
multi version that's it you add multi in
front of anything that goes a different
meeting I'm pretty sure that's an issue
about multi version just called meta
version it needs to be multi alright
how's this let's look can I interest it
in like how many of these are nice to
haves for as must and then separately
how many of these are like a stretch
crazy for for the year versus like oh
yeah yeah I already expect to get that
done should we use random emojis for
voting random emojis and that way you
don't know what the book is up to your
interpretation of what's important for
development feels like an interpretive
dance sometimes I like this
p zero stretch yeah the DHT stuff I feel
like we can decision on DHT in the
browser is something that's gonna happen
either way
actually that's DHT in KS not
necessarily browser right well yeah so I
think like the DHT in J ass is probably
going to happen I would wager that
that's gonna be the case
Ichi running in the web browser maybe
maybe not so much but if we can
reasonably keep the number of dials
required for DHT query down it becomes
more feasible to run a DHT client in
browser so I think if we can target like
okay what is the reasonably looking at
query times like backtrack out of that
like what's a reasonable query time
backtrack out of that I figure like
what's the maximum number of dials that
we could do to stay under that threshold
and then see if it's even feasible for
us to get the DHT queries under that
threshold of connections though I just
put like 20 dials in there but that is
just a random number from my brain
internet it'd be based on real numbers I
that that we do already kind of know it
sounds like you already know what like
the bite-sized pieces
the questions that we would need to vote
a answer to see if it's a feasible thing
somebody that's in him having BHT notes
that are actually diable from the
browser that's another tricky problem
we'll add it to the list there you go
great this is an awesome start thanks
y'all I really appreciate your your
thinking on this and then we'll use this
as a reference when we go into q2
planning which is start pretty soon so
start thinking about what's what's
coming next and and think about what are
the pieces that would lead us to these
things as n states by the end of the
year and what we'll do is when we start
to do the q2 planning is kind of look at
what the sort of OPRS that people have
drafted and they're proposing and then
maybe even just like link them to this
list and Lydell from a kind of browser
and the connectivity organization
standpoint maybe it's worth filing
issues for each one of these if there
aren't already and then which there
probably are and then and then then
making sure that we're tracking against
those issues in each one of the old card
lists of which one of these that effort
would support
and eventually then we'll just have the
hell out of it jacob jake' style on my
food list if an updating readme of in
web browser
yeah it will happen eventually we we
should start the projects and probably
as soon as I catch myself from
underneath yeah I'm gonna doing a kid to
make that easier to like I said for the
it was my goal for you know that we had
these special interest groups kind of
spun up this quarter but next quarter
we're entering that quarter with these
groups already kind of launched it
running so I wanted to be able to have
queue to really be the kind of line in
the sand where we start using the same
methods that you're using for heard for
the protest ground and content writing
and things like that and have some
uniformity and consistency from across
the team and how we're tracking this
type of work are we thinking like a
separate send isn't about spare
especially interest group or for a super
group really because there's just like
make a lot more sense I doesn't think
for that the whole ecosystem one would
just be to high level and across the
stupid these streams each one of these
groups are pretty self contained in this
set of work even though sometimes they
relate they can run pretty independently
and I think the team needs the full view
of just their stuff and then maybe
they'll have a ecosystem one that's just
towards all these these okay are in the
viewer meta issues or something like
that yeah I've run into similar problems
with defining back in the time when we
were using waffle instead of some board
for sort of like high level view of web
browser things the moment you include
like Jess ipfs and Jess I give a safe
city clients on top of those like meta
repost it's instantly gets too noisy so
the special interest
level sounds about right alrighty
we're time yes what are the best hours
of the week I next week